<h2>The beginning</h2>

<p>My story starts over 18 years ago in 1999.  I was still relatively new to the Marine Corps Reserves and finally had a career path in mind.  This was a time where we were in the midst of the "dot com bubble" where millions were created overnight only to see their empires come crashing down only a few short years later.  The path I chose, regardless of witnessing dot comes wipe out left and right was in fact -- IT!  I didn't know what aspect of IT was most important to me nor did I know where to begin so I could find a fulltime job.  With that in mind I had to come up with a strategy to get my foot into someones door and get my career started on the right foot!</p>

<h2>The Internship</h2>

<p>My story takes place prior to there being a LinkedIn, Indeed, SimplyHired.  In fact most job borads like Monster, CareerBuilde and DICE were still in the early years of development compared to what they are today.  In fact, it was still common to search for jobs in the newspaper!  So with limited tools at my disposal and a relentless passion to break into the IT field - I started my journey.  For the coming months I found myself researching companies of all sizes and starting my door knocking campaign.  Equipped with a list of addresses and some form or as close to what I could find as a ponit of contact to either HR, the IT department, and in some cases no one at all.  I found my self going from business to business door knocking one after the other to see who was willing to allow me to do an unpaid internship so I could develop enough experience to be a marketable candidate for my first paid IT gig.</p>

<h2>Closing the gap</h2>

<p>At this point I've nearly knocked on well over 100 doors only to receive just as many rejections.  As my efforts feel futile and fruitless I finally stumbled across a small IT certification school in Atlanta.  I couldn't believe my efforts had finally paid off.  The arrangement was essentially for me to work as an unpaid janitor and errand boy.  I wouldn't be able to touch a PC for nearly a month after starting.  This was so my "work ethic" could be observed to see how passionate I truly was to enter this field.  Before you know it I'm prepping course materials and setting up hardware labs for the A+ exam as an Instructors Assistant.  It was at this point that I would show up to my internship smiling from ear to ear and eager to see how I could be of assistance that day!</p>

<p>Almost 90 days later an opportunity at a local community college, Chattahoochee Tech, would come up while I was there registering for classes toward a certificate in Help Desk Support.  I had the fortunate chance of overhearing a conversation someone was holding with the Director of IT.  This was just the type of lead I was glad to be eaves dropping on.  Once their conversation was done and they parted ways, I left my spot in long registration line to pursue this Director who went by the name of Barry who is still a close friend to this day.  As fate would have it Barry was in dire need of all the help he could get and constrained by the budget he had to work so you guessed it -- another unpaid internship!<p>

<h2>The transition begins</h2>

<p>After nearly 6 months of working 2 unpaid interships and a fulltime customer service job to make ends meet.  My efforts would finally pay off.  I landed my first real IT job working on a UNIX (SCO) based help desk role with the worst schedule of 9 am to 9 pm Friday through Saturday.  Granted this was my first IT job it actually turned out to be more of a lesson than anything else.  While work the awkward schedule along with 2 internships I thought I had enough room on my plate to continue attending college courses.  All seemed well until the end of the first semester when I found myself not getting enough rest and falling behind on my school work and being late for my still new fulltime job.  One day at work I used my lunch break to grab a "quick" nap only to wake up to my team lead knocking on my care window -- 3 hours later!  I actaully feel asleep for over three hours due to the compounding lack of rest I was getting at home.  My team lead gave me an earful while I finished the remainder of my shift.  When I arrived at work the next day I never even go the chancce to settle into my desk before I was directed to the office of the HR director -- I think we all know how this story ends!  Newly unemployed I had to figure out something fast!</p>

<p>I was fortunate at this point as I told Barry a few days later about my foolish mistake only to find out that there was room in the budget for him to hire someone onto the team.  If you can believe it Barry wanted me to come on board.  I was wondering why in the world would he hire me ESPECIALLY after I told what I felt was the dumbest mistake I thought I ever made.  He said he appreciated my honesty and said there was something about me that led him to trust that I wouldn't pose any problems under his watch.  I made sure Barry wouldn't have to eat those words while I worked under him for the next four years.</p>

<h2>Taking it to the next level</h2>

<p>At this point, it's very easy to ask what would a guy with 18+ years of IT (LinkedIn link here) experience need from a program like "Vets Who Code".  I'm glad to tell you that what I need is far more than a job.  What I seek is change and the opportunity to step outside my comfort zone as well as help others.  The change comes in the form of picking up a developers skill set that I can use to not only land a job or start a business but to combine with my current skillset to land a role in an organization with greater responsibility, to better undertand the developers I've supported throughout my career so I can better serve their needs and help them accomplish their goals and to help an organization better acheive it's vision -- if not starting my own company with a vision I develop from the skills this program provides.  Stepping outside my comfort zone means learning a brand new skillset, something I haven't had to do since landing that first internship.  Additionally, as a part of stepping outside my comfort zone is the opportunity to have accountability partners in Jerome Hardaway and the peers I'll have the luxury to meet if chosen to attend the "Vets Who Code" program.  Finally, helping others is how I've always felt compelled to give back to the community in some shape or from.  Whether it be through the "Vets Who Code" program or some other way to give this is a thirt of mine that has to be quenched since so many others before me have helped clear a path for me to develop my career.  In the end, I've always been a driven individual with a passion to succeed and whatch others do the same.  With that said, the opportunity to be a part of this program would be a major chapter in my life that will equip me with the skills to help others take themselves to the next level!</p>